[DOCS-1700] Update docs for automation history (#1803)
wandb/docs: models/automations/view-automation-history.mdx

---
title: View an automation's history
---

<Note>
This feature requires an Enterprise license. It is available only for:
- W&B Multi-tenant Cloud
- W&B Dedicated Cloud
- W&B Self-Managed v0.75.0+
</Note>

> This page describes how to view and understand the execution history of your W&B [automations](/models/automations) and track what triggered an automation, what actions were taken, and whether they succeeded or failed.

Author: ```suggestion
This page describes how to view and understand the execution history of your W&B [automations](/models/automations), including what triggered an automation, what actions were taken, and whether they succeeded or failed.
```

</Tab>
</Tabs>

### From the automation details page

1. Navigate to your project or registry.
1. Click the **Automations** tab.
1. Click an automation name to view or edit its configuration.
1. The **Execution history** section shows all executions for this specific automation. lick an execution timestamp to view details about a particular execution.

### From a specific entity

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Registry">
1. Navigate to your registry.
1. Select a specific registered model or artifact collection.
1. Click the **...** menu in the top right.
1. Select **View history** to see all automation executions related to this entity.
</Tab>
<Tab title="Project">
1. Navigate to your project.
1. Select a specific run or artifact.
1. In the Overview tab, look for the **Triggered automations** section.
1. Click on any listed automation to view its execution details.
</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Understanding execution details

### Execution status

Each automation execution has one of the following statuses:

- **Finished**: The automation completed all actions successfully.
- **Failed**: The automation encountered an error and could not complete.
- **Pending**: The automation is queued for execution.

> ### Detailed execution information

Author: ```suggestion
### Execution details
```

Click on any execution in the history to view:

- **Event details**: The specific event that triggered the automation, including:
  - Event type (e.g., "New artifact version", "Run completed")
  - Entity information (run ID, artifact name, etc.)
  - User who triggered the event (if applicable)

- **Action details**: Information about what the automation attempted to do:
  - Action type (Slack notification or webhook)
  - Target (Slack channel or webhook URL)
  - Payload sent (for webhooks)

- **Result information**:
  - Response status (for webhooks)
  - Any error messages or stack traces (for failed executions)

> ## Searching

Author: ```suggestion
## Find an automation execution
```

To find an automation execution, you can search by automation name, or you can sort the list of executions by any column.

> ## Next steps

Author: ```suggestion

## Next steps
```

---
title: View an automation's history
---

<Note>
This feature requires an Enterprise license. It is available only for:
- W&B Multi-tenant Cloud
- W&B Dedicated Cloud
- W&B Self-Managed v0.75.0+
</Note>

This page describes how to view and understand the execution history of your W&B [automations](/models/automations), including what triggered an automation, what actions were taken, and whether they succeeded or failed.

## Overview

Each executed automation generates a record that includes:
- **Execution timestamp**: When the automation was triggered.
- **Triggering event**: The specific event triggered the automation.
- **Status**: The execution's status. See [Execution status](#execution-status).
- **Action details**: Information about what action was performed, such as notifying a Slack channel or running a webhook.
- **Result details**: Additional information, if any, about the final outcome of executing the automation, including the error for a failed execution.

## View automation history

You can view automation history from multiple locations in the W&B App:

> ### From the Automations tab

Reviewer: Confused about this section title, the "From the automation details page" also requires clicking on a tab to view automation history. Suggest renaming sections. Or grouping "registry" vs "project" flow since that's how the product is split it.

Author: Refactored, thanks.

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Registry">
1. Navigate to your registry by clicking on **Registry** in the left sidebar.
1. Select your registry from the list.
1. Click **Automations** tab to view the registry's automations. In each row, the **Last execution** column shows when the automation last executed.
1. In the **Automations history** tab, view all executions of the registry's automations in reverse chronological order, starting with the most recent execution. Each execution's metadata displays, including the event, action, and status.
</Tab>
<Tab title="Project">
1. Click the **Automations** tab in the left navigation. The project's automations display.

    - Find the automation you want to investigate. You can use the search bar to filter by automation name, and you can sort by the last triggered date to find recently executed automations.

>     - Click an automation's name to view or edit its configuration.

Reviewer: Why are these nest bullet points? 
```suggestion
1. Find the automation you want to investigate. You can use the search bar to filter by automation name, and you can sort by the last triggered date to find recently executed automations.
1. Click an automation's name.
```

"... to view or edit its configuration." not sure why this is here, we are describing how to view automation history.

Author: Removed.

</Tab>
</Tabs>

### From the automation details page

1. Navigate to your project or registry.
1. Click the **Automations** tab.
1. Click an automation name to view or edit its configuration.
1. The **Execution history** section shows all executions for this specific automation. lick an execution timestamp to view details about a particular execution.

### From a specific entity

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Registry">
1. Navigate to your registry.
1. Select a specific registered model or artifact collection.
1. Click the **...** menu in the top right.
1. Select **View history** to see all automation executions related to this entity.
</Tab>
<Tab title="Project">
1. Navigate to your project.
1. Select a specific run or artifact.
1. In the Overview tab, look for the **Triggered automations** section.
1. Click on any listed automation to view its execution details.
</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Understanding execution details

### Execution status

Each automation execution has one of the following statuses:

- **Finished**: The automation completed all actions successfully.

> - **Failed**: The automation encountered an error and could not complete.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Failed**: The automation encountered an error and terminated unsuccessfully.
```

Technically the automation did "complete" (ie it exited without an _unhandled_ error), just unsuccessfully.  This contrasts with eg "crashed", which we don't support in automations right now, but that is a separate status on Runs (and automation status categories are deliberately a subset of run status categories)

- **Pending**: The automation is queued for execution.

### Execution details

Click on any execution in the history to view:

- **Event details**: The specific event that triggered the automation, including:
  - Event type (e.g., "New artifact version", "Run completed")
  - Entity information (run ID, artifact name, etc.)
  - User who triggered the event (if applicable)

- **Action details**: Information about what the automation attempted to do:
  - Action type (Slack notification or webhook)
  - Target (Slack channel or webhook URL)
  - Payload sent (for webhooks)

- **Result information**:
  - Response status (for webhooks)
  - Any error messages or stack traces (for failed executions)

> ## Find an automation execution

Reviewer: Where are users supposed to search?

Author: In the search bar at the top of the execution history. Moved this info upward.

1. Click on any listed automation to view its execution details.
</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Understanding execution details

### Execution status

Each automation execution has one of the following statuses:

- **Finished**: The automation completed all actions successfully.
- **Failed**: The automation encountered an error and could not complete.
- **Pending**: The automation is queued for execution.

### Detailed execution information

Click on any execution in the history to view:

- **Event details**: The specific event that triggered the automation, including:
  - Event type (e.g., "New artifact version", "Run completed")
  - Entity information (run ID, artifact name, etc.)
  - User who triggered the event (if applicable)

- **Action details**: Information about what the automation attempted to do:
  - Action type (Slack notification or webhook)
  - Target (Slack channel or webhook URL)
  - Payload sent (for webhooks)

- **Result information**:
  - Response status (for webhooks)
  - Any error messages or stack traces (for failed executions)

## Searching

To find an automation execution, you can search by automation name, or you can sort the list of executions by any column.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: View an automation's history
---

<Note>
This feature requires an Enterprise license. It is available only for:
- W&B Multi-tenant Cloud
- W&B Dedicated Cloud
- W&B Self-Managed v0.75.0+
</Note>

This page describes how to view and understand the execution history of your W&B [automations](/models/automations) and track what triggered an automation, what actions were taken, and whether they succeeded or failed.

## Overview

Each executed automation generates a record that includes:
- **Execution timestamp**: When the automation was triggered.
- **Triggering event**: The specific event triggered the automation.
- **Status**: The execution's status. See [Execution status](#execution-status).
- **Action details**: Information about what action was performed, such as notifying a Slack channel or running a webhook.
- **Result details**: Additional information, if any, about the final outcome of executing the automation, including the error for a failed execution.

## View automation history

> You can view automation history from multiple locations in the W&B interface:

Author: ```suggestion
You can view automation history from multiple locations in the W&B App:
```

### From the Automations tab

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Registry">
1. Navigate to your registry by clicking on **Registry** in the left sidebar.
1. Select your registry from the list.
1. Click **Automations** tab to view the registry's automations. In each row, the **Last execution** column shows when the automation last executed.
1. In the **Automations history** tab, view all executions of the registry's automations in reverse chronological order, starting with the most recent execution. Each execution's metadata displays, including the event, action, and status.
</Tab>
<Tab title="Project">

> 1. Navigate to your project from the W&B home page or by using the project selector.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> 1. Click the **Automations** tab in the project navigation bar (located alongside Overview, Workspace, Runs, etc.). The project's automations display.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Click the **Automations** tab in the left navigation. The project's automations display.
```

    - Find the automation you want to investigate. You can use the search bar to filter by automation name, and you can sort by the last triggered date to find recently executed automations.

>     - Click an automation name to open its details page.

Author: ```suggestion
    - Click an automation's name to view or edit its configuration.
```

> 1. In the **History** tab, view all executions of the project's automations in reverse chronological order, starting with the most recent execution. Each execution's metadata displays, including the event, action, and status.

Author: ```suggestion
1. In the **History** tab, view all executions of the project's automations in reverse chronological order, starting with the most recent execution. Each execution's metadata displays, including the event, action, and status. Click an execution timestamp to view details about a particular execution.
```

</Tab>
</Tabs>

### From the automation details page

1. Navigate to your project or registry.
1. Click the **Automations** tab.

> 1. Click on an automation name to open its details page.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Click an automation name to view or edit its configuration.
```

> 1. The **Execution history** section shows all executions for this specific automation.

Author: ```suggestion
1. The **Execution history** section shows all executions for this specific automation. lick an execution timestamp to view details about a particular execution.
```

Click on any execution in the history to view:

- **Event details**: The specific event that triggered the automation, including:
  - Event type (e.g., "New artifact version", "Run completed")
  - Entity information (run ID, artifact name, etc.)
  - User who triggered the event (if applicable)

- **Action details**: Information about what the automation attempted to do:
  - Action type (Slack notification or webhook)
  - Target (Slack channel or webhook URL)
  - Payload sent (for webhooks)

- **Result information**:
  - Response status (for webhooks)
  - Any error messages or stack traces (for failed executions)

## Searching

To find an automation execution, you can search by automation name, or you can sort the list of executions by any column.

## Troubleshooting failed executions

When an automation fails, the execution history provides debugging information:

### Debugging steps

1. Click on the failed execution to view details.
1. Review the error message and stack trace.
1. Check the event and action configuration.
1. Verify that any required secrets are properly configured.
1. For webhooks, confirm the endpoint is accessible and accepting requests.

> 1. For Slack notifications, verify the channel exists and the bot has permission to post.

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: View an automation's history
---

<Note>

> This feature is available only for W&B Enterprise Cloud customers.

Reviewer 2: **issue:** It's available on server 0.75+

> This feature is available only for W&B Enterprise Cloud customers.

Author: ```suggestion
This feature requires an Enterprise license. It is available only for:
- W&B Multi-tenant Cloud
- W&B Dedicated Cloud
- W&B Self-Managed v0.75.0+
```

</Tab>
</Tabs>

### From the automation details page

1. Navigate to your project or registry.
1. Click the **Automations** tab.
1. Click on an automation name to open its details page.
1. The **Execution history** section shows all executions for this specific automation.

### From a specific entity

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Registry">
1. Navigate to your registry.
1. Select a specific registered model or artifact collection.
1. Click the **...** menu in the top right.
1. Select **View history** to see all automation executions related to this entity.
</Tab>
<Tab title="Project">
1. Navigate to your project.
1. Select a specific run or artifact.
1. In the Overview tab, look for the **Triggered automations** section.
1. Click on any listed automation to view its execution details.
</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Understanding execution details

### Execution status

Each automation execution has one of the following statuses:

- **Success**: The automation completed all actions successfully.
- **Failed**: The automation encountered an error and could not complete.
- **Pending**: The automation is queued for execution.

> - **Running**: The automation is currently executing.

Reviewer 2: **note:** as previously mentioned -- 
- execution status can be `Finished`, `Failed`, or `Pending` (i.e. it uses the same names as run statuses for consistency).
- `Running` isn't currently an automation execution status, since we don't support any actions that run for long enough to capture this state

> - **Running**: The automation is currently executing.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Finished**: The automation completed all actions successfully.
- **Failed**: The automation encountered an error and could not complete.
- **Pending**: The automation is queued for execution.
```

### Execution timeline

For each execution, you can view:

1. **Trigger time**: The exact timestamp when the event occurred.
1. **Execution time**: When the automation started processing.
1. **Completion time**: When the automation finished (for completed executions).

> 1. **Duration**: Total time taken to execute the automation.

Reviewer 2: **issue:** I think we mentioned this before, but we don't show duration or completion time in the UI (let me know if you see differently somewhere)

> 1. **Duration**: Total time taken to execute the automation.

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Detailed execution information

Click on any execution in the history to view:

- **Event details**: The specific event that triggered the automation, including:
  - Event type (e.g., "New artifact version", "Run completed")
  - Entity information (run ID, artifact name, etc.)
  - User who triggered the event (if applicable)

- **Action details**: Information about what the automation attempted to do:
  - Action type (Slack notification or webhook)
  - Target (Slack channel or webhook URL)
  - Payload sent (for webhooks)

- **Result information**:
  - Response status (for webhooks)
  - Any error messages or stack traces (for failed executions)

> ## Filtering and searching

Author: ```suggestion
## Searching
```

The automation history interface provides several ways to find specific executions:

- **Filter by status**: Show only successful, failed, pending, or running executions.
- **Filter by date range**: View executions within a specific time period.

> - **Filter by automation**: Show executions for specific automations.

Reviewer 2: **issue:** filtering is ticketed, but definitely not supported in the UI at this time

> - **Filter by automation**: Show executions for specific automations.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> - **Search**: Search for executions by automation name, event type, or entity name.

Reviewer 2: **issue:** this sounds like it's still describing filtering on multiple attributes.  Right now search is only supported on automation name.

> - **Search**: Search for executions by automation name, event type, or entity name.

Author: ```suggestion
To find an automation execution, you can search by automation name, or you can sort the list of executions by any column.
```

## Troubleshooting failed executions

When an automation fails, the execution history provides debugging information:

### Common failure reasons

- **Authentication errors**: The webhook or Slack integration lacks proper credentials.
- **Network errors**: The target endpoint is unreachable.
- **Timeout**: The webhook took too long to respond.

> - **Invalid payload**: The webhook rejected the request due to malformed data.

Reviewer 2: **issue:** I'm not sure we can claim any of these.  The response and error returned by an arbitrary webhook request will depend entirely the webhook service itself, including how spec-compliant the webhook service is, how the server handles different types of errors (if at all), etc.

> - **Invalid payload**: The webhook rejected the request due to malformed data.

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Debugging steps

1. Click on the failed execution to view details.
1. Review the error message and stack trace.
1. Check the event and action configuration.
1. Verify that any required secrets are properly configured.
1. For webhooks, confirm the endpoint is accessible and accepting requests.
1. For Slack notifications, verify the channel exists and the bot has permission to post.

> ## Retention and limits

Author: ```suggestion
```

- **History retention**: Execution history is retained for 90 days.
- **Maximum executions**: Each automation can have up to 1000 executions in its history.

> - **Rate limiting**: Automations are subject to rate limits to prevent excessive executions.

Reviewer 2: **question:** Where are you seeing these?

Author: I'll remove them. They were present in the prior (Hugo) PR too, I think. The 90-day retention 
```suggestion
```

## Best practices

1. **Regular monitoring**: Check automation history regularly to ensure automations are working as expected.
1. **Set up alerts**: Create automations to notify you when other automations fail.
1. **Test thoroughly**: Use test events to verify automation behavior before deploying to production.
1. **Document automations**: Include clear descriptions in your automations to make troubleshooting easier.

> 1. **Clean up old automations**: Delete or disable automations that are no longer needed to reduce clutter in the history.

Reviewer 2: **note:** I would remove this section, as 
- It's potentially too prescriptive, as it assumes users only use automations for managing production workflows/pipelines
- It suggests support for features that don't yet exist, e.g. 
  - "create automations to notify you when other automations fail", or 
  - "use test events" which can imply proper support for mocking events or dry runs, depending on how it's interpreted)

> 1. **Clean up old automations**: Delete or disable automations that are no longer needed to reduce clutter in the history.

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: View an automation's history
---

<Note>
This feature requires an Enterprise license. It is available only for:
- W&B Multi-tenant Cloud
- W&B Dedicated Cloud
- W&B Self-Managed v0.75.0+
</Note>

This page describes how to view and understand the execution history of your W&B [automations](/models/automations), including what triggered an automation, what actions were taken, and whether they succeeded or failed.

Each executed automation generates a record that includes:
- **Execution timestamp**: When the automation was triggered.
- **Triggering event**: The specific event triggered the automation.
- **Status**: The execution's status. See [Execution status](#execution-status).
- **Action details**: Information about what action was performed, such as notifying a Slack channel or running a webhook.
- **Result details**: Additional information, if any, about the final outcome of executing the automation, including the error for a failed execution.

> Select a tab for details.

Reviewer: Nit: Add a one liner describing what the tabs are for. Something like "Based on your use case, select the **Registry** or **Project** tab to learn how to view your automation's history".

> Select a tab for details.

Author: ```suggestion
Based on your use case, select the **Registry** or **Project** tab for detailed instructions for viewing automation history.
```

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Registry">
1. Navigate to your registry by clicking on **Registry** in the left sidebar.
1. Select your registry from the list.
1. View the registry's automations in the **Automations** tab. Click the **Last execution** timestamp to view the execution history details. You can use the search bar to filter by automation name, and you can sort by the last triggered date to find recently executed automations.
1. View the registry's automation executions in reverse chronological order in the **Automations history** tab, including the event, action, and status. Click an execution timestamp to view details about a particular execution.

> <Tip>If a collection has associated automation executions, the icon ![Collection automation execution symbol, a circle with a right-pointing arrow](/images/automations/collection-automation-execution-icon) displays, along with the number of associated executions.</Tip>

Author: ```suggestion
<Tip>If a collection has associated automation executions, the icon ![Collection automation execution symbol, a circle with a right-pointing arrow](/images/automations/collection-automation-execution-icon.png) displays, along with the number of associated executions.</Tip>
```
